From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 49. Recorded
live Thursday, January 13th, 2011. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Tellerik R a D control
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forums and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks about
web matrix with Rob Connery.
This is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes and it's Microsoft shill
week here on, on the
Hansel minutes. How's it going?
I've got Rob Connery with
me today. How are you,
Rob? Good. How are you
doing? I'm good. So you're
a reform shell. You used
to work for the man
and now you don't work
for the man. I do.
And you just actually work
for me. I did. I
did for a, yeah, for
a short time, unfortunately, but
that was fine. Yeah. Short
fund time. So I was
joking there. I said it's
Microsoft show week, but you
know, significant thing happened today.
We're recording on the 13th.
And that significant thing was
that a bunch of stuff
was released today. asp.net, MVC
three and web matrix and
orchard, and just a bunch
of stuff going on today.
But I wanted to talk
to you about web matrix
because this is not a
product that I would really
think you would have been
interested in. Yeah. And well,
to be honest, it wasn't
a product I was interested
in the first time I
heard about it was actually
when I still worked at
Microsoft. And when it was
back when it was called
plan nine, and I remember
just thinking, well, that's a
bold name for a project,
you know, and you heard
about what it was supposed
to be and do. And
I thought, well, this'll be
interesting. And then, you know,
razor comes out and these
things start happening and you
hear about the angle that
it's going for and you
think what is going on
over there. And yeah. And
so you kind of instantly
dismiss it and I'm not
sure, I'm not sure why
I did that. And I
sort of actually feel bad
about it. What do you
think? Why do you feel
bad? Well, you know, I
remember, I think it was
David Fowler wrote a post about
is I think it's the
microsoft.data DLL. It's the, it's
the web matrix data access.
Yeah. Okay. Is that right?
No, I think it was
a way of doing data
access, but yeah, he did
a post. Yeah. Well, okay.
So it was just a
thing and it looked like
this was going to be
the way to do data
access in web matrix. And
I was just stunned looking
at this, just thinking really,
you know, I mean, we've
passed so many milestones in
the dotnet realm and one
of those being data access
and understanding about SQL injection,
no one likes to use
sequel on and on and
on. There's a lot of
really high ended abstraction tools
that Microsoft has. What are
we doing here with, you
know, inline sequel. And I,
I remember I tweeted this,
I said, data access is
hard. Let's go shopping. And
I linked to David Fowler's
post. And of course, you
know, I got a lot
of snide and snarky and
funny responses, but now after
having used it, I'm completely
hat in hand, a handover
heart, the other hand, over
heart thinking I was wrong.
Alright, let me, let me
ask you this. One of
my favorite quotes and you
know, how quotes are on
the internet. They go from
person to person and who
knows who originally said it,
but I think Jeff Atwood
was quoting someone, some physicist
or something about strong opinions,
weakly held. I always think
of you like that. Like
strong opinions, weakly held to
me is like, you know,
arguing with you in a
bar in Vegas about something.
And you're just like, you're
an idiot. This is ridiculous.
Like, how do you you're
so intellectually dishonest. I mean,
I can't believe that you
would even, and then you
realize somewhere in the middle
that you're wrong and you
go, Oh, Oh, okay, cool.
Two things I think about
that. I remember Jeff Atwood
using that phrase, and I
remember thinking it's typical Jeff
Atwood, and I know that's
going to sell made of
me, but that phrase is
an oxymoron. It doesn't make
any sense. I mean, I
know typical about Jeff. Well,
it's true. I mean, with
all respect and love to
Jeff halo, I hate when
people say that to me
with all due respect anyway.
Yeah. With respect to here's
something mean I'm going to
say, I think, you know,
a strong opinion is a
strong opinion because someone believes
that deeply by definition, that's
not a weakly held opinion.
So, but I know what
Jeff meant. You, Jeff man,
you can talk me out
of my position and I'm
definitely that way, you know?
And I, and I don't
think anyone can learn if,
if they're, you know, really
stuck in their own belief
systems. And, but you know,
I do have my opinions,
but those opinions I like
to think are founded on
research and understanding. So if
you and I got in
a discussion in Las Vegas,
right. I would like to
think I have facts at
hand. And I've always said,
you're one person I don't
want to argue with ever.
Cause you like rally out
facts as if I don't
know you have them in
your pocket. Like there's Scott
Hanselman's geek Almanac. Tell it
to my wife. Right. Most
of my facts are called
into question. Right. Well, anyway,
to your point, yeah, I
do have strong opinions, but
the thing that drives me
nuts a lot of times
is when people just wave
their arms and cite someone
else, you know, said and
so on. But in this
case we sat down, you
and I, we cracked out
a live site and it
was enjoyable. So let's talk
about that. Let's talk about
that because I, you know,
I mean, I worked for
the group that made web
matrix, but I, I, I
said to myself that, you
know, do we, do we
need this toy IDE you
know, I do everything I
need in visual studio. I
don't want to, I mean,
you know, I have lightweight,
lightweight for me is asp.net
MVC. I've got a lot
of choices, a lot of
flexibility. Although I always feel
guilty. Of course, when I
write an MVC application and
I don't have like robust
unit tests and stuff, you
know, I just do, I
really want a little cheesy
kind of a thing to
write my, my, my sights.
And then you, you and
I have this other podcast,
right? There's this developer's lifestyle
con and you had written
that in kind of custom
Rob Connery, Ruby Sinatra thing.
Right. That was that, that
was our initial thing. Cause
what happened was we were
on Tumblr and Tumblr went
down to the point where
it was down more than
it was up. And you
said, this sucks. So then
you switch it over to
your kind of, you know,
it was half static files,
half Sinatra if I remember
correctly, Just so in case
people are wondering, it's a
CMS called Nesta Nesta, CMS.
Yup. Next to CMS, a
Ruby rails space. Right. Or
is it only Sinatra, Sinatra,
Sinatra, pastes, excuse me, CMS.
And I wanted to get
involved in that too, but
you know, it was, there
were, I was thinking, Oh,
I will, I'll install Ruby.
And I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll
maintain the website, but it
still seemed a little more
complicated maybe than it needed
to be. And then you
just said, Hey, let's use
web matrix. And I was
like, Oh, okay. Yeah. Well,
you know, I know it
sounds strange, but I had
toyed around with web matrix
a little bit. And I
think it was when Eric
Hexter came to us with
MVC comp at tech pub
and, and he had said,
wow, this web matrix thing
is rad. He made the
site in web matrix. So
I kicked it up and
tried it out. Sure enough.
I was really impressed. And
so I was thinking at
the time it would probably
take me more time to
get you set up on
a VM and not to
get you set up, you
know, a bunch of you
don't Linux, you know, but
to, to walk you through
here's RVM and set up
all these things, you know,
you know, Ruby, you know,
these things, but it would
just take time. Yeah. 34
to six hours of messing
around just to get everything
right. So we could, we
could deploy in one click.
And for me, the chance
to learn something is, is
intoxicating. It's like you can't
dangle a fatter carrot in
front of me. Yes. And
so I just was like,
Hey man, beta three, we
got the release coming around
the corner. We're kicking up
a, in the next month,
we're going to do a,
what matrix series, a tech
pub, Hey, let's just get
started and deploy a site.
This would be fun. Okay.
So you went and did
that and then you called
me, I think, you know,
halfway through yesterday, it was
funny. Cause you got it
up to a point where
you're like, I'm done, I've
learned what I need to
learn. You go and you
throw it in Dropbox. And
we have a shared Dropbox
for the show and you
said, all right, I don't
want to play anymore. You
figure the rest of it
out. And here's all the
problems. And we basically did
a little bit of pair
programming as you got me
up to speed paraprogramming over
Dropbox is hilarious. By the
way, he has web matrix
open. I have it open.
I hit save. He goes,
ah, darn it. And it
says, reload file has changed.
Yup. No get no source
control. Just, you know, we
were, we were just working
on the same shared files,
basically ridiculous seat of the
pants. So you do the
pants, total slop, and then
you said, all right, I'm
done. I gotta go. And
then I spent the next
four hours kind of refactoring
and tidying up and learning
and learning and learning. And
you know, I think we,
we probably spent more time
getting deployment to work than
we did actually writing the
thing. Oh absolutely. We were
into it for about six,
seven hours. And that was
about it. It's really easy.
Well, that's the thing that's
really compelling to me about
what matrix is as I
was learning it, it was
an, I call this process
like a zero to 60,
or I guess you can
think of it as like
trying to get through the
learning curve, into solving a
business problem directly, right. With,
with tools like rails a
Sinatra. I mean, it kind
of just scoots you along
and you go at a
pace and Sinatra is so
bleedingly simple. You can Google,
if you get a problem,
how do I do this?
And the solution is right
there. Oh, okay. And then
you learn it as you
go. And I always had
issues with when I was
learning asp.net and MBC as
well, mostly because this stuff
just isn't out there or
it's hard to find, or,
you know, nowadays it's probably
simpler, but with web matrix,
how do I like, how
do I do this with
a helper, boom there's blog
posts. And most of the
time I was on your
blog and I was, Are
you saying that this reminds
you of the same style
of Sinatra as far as
the same style of how
you learn It's that light?
It is that light. It
gets the abstraction right out
of your way. Here's an
example. I remember I was
fretting over how do I
deal with our URLs? Cause
Tumblr uses a strange URL
scheme and they appended a
number and so on and
so forth. And I thought,
well, I'll just mirror the
directory structure. Like not sloppy.
There's gotta be a better.
Let me just, let me
pause you for a second,
just to make sure people
understand. We had an existing
site at this developer's life.com
that was run on tumbler.
And they had specific URLs
with like slash a funny
number slash the title that
dah, dah, dah, we don't
want to break our URLs
when we switch over to
our new CMS. Right. And
I was just thinking, well,
I could mirror the directory.
I could literally put in
the directory, like one, two,
three, four, whatever it was.
Right. And I'm like, that's
sloppy. And so I thought,
well, okay, I know there's
a way around this. How
do I do your writing?
And I found a couple
of posts and I realized,
Oh, jeez, duh, it's your
URL rewrite. That's a hard
word to say. And you
just plug it into web
config. And within two minutes
I was done and move
on. Right. It's built in,
actually I'm looking at it
right now. It's a systems,
our web server rewrite. And
then there's one rule you
have, it's basically like three
lines. Yeah. And the thing
that I like about it
is there's no massive abstraction
that you need to understand,
which is like Sinatra with
Sinatra, you say get, and
this is the URL you're
going to respond to. And
here's the code that's going
to respond to that URL.
And I loved it. I
just sat there thinking, Whoa,
I don't need to understand
some deep abstraction, some object
graph let's just get to
work. And it was a
really good feeling. The us
I've been playing around with
this, I'm trying to, I
talked to Damien Edwards and
I was showing him some
of the code. And he
said something really, really interesting.
I wanted to share with
you. He said, you're thinking
too much like a programmer
because I was trying to
solve a problem. And I
was focusing on a bunch
of different things, about a
perception of what I thought
elegant looked like. And he
basically said, stop thinking like
a programmer. He said, the
only thing from a programmer
perspective you should be thinking
about is if you're repeating
yourself, other than that, any,
if anything goes and, and,
and that was very interesting.
I mean, like I'm looking
for example, at our default
dot CSS HTML file here,
it's effectively a four loop.
We say like VAR shows
equals shows dot reason for
each show and shows. And
then it's mostly HTML. There's
actually more HTML in this
app than there is a
code. Yeah. And Damien makes
a very interesting comment. And
it's something that I've felt
a lot working in the
Ruby realm is, you know
what you're building is an
interaction with a user. And
really what you're trying to
do is structure HTML. Then
it's going to represent your
application. That's where your head
should be now. Does that
mean in a sense, there's
going to be a lot
of people listening to this
show, reacting strongly. Oh great.
We're all going to be
cavemen again. Not at all.
So what you just said
was actually something interesting. We
centralize our logic. So our
data call is centralized and
we don't repeat it. Why
you just said was really
important. There is more HTML
on this page and there
is code, which of course
there should be, but it's
full of one liners. It's
all it is, is one
liner calls to help us
in everything. I love it.
It's a scripted approach. That's
for sure. It's not a,
what I refer to as
ivory tower. Component-based, let's overthink
this, you know, when really
all we're trying to do
is structure HTML. It's scripted
now you're using C sharp,
but it doesn't quite feel
like C sharp. I mean,
like for example, in our,
in our little show database,
we're returning a dynamic, we
have like public static dynamic
find. And you basically like
you go find a show
and return it dynamic. And
there's no IntelliSense cause it's
totally dynamic. And that took
a while to get you
to get used to, it's
almost like the, the fact
that there's no IntelliSense for
the code. There is for
the HTML and stuff, but
not for the, not for
the, the, the co what
little code do you do.
Right. It didn't really matter
because everything you're returning around
as a dynamic anyway, and
the database, you basically say,
say database.open, and then the
object pops out of it
with all the properties just
sitting there. It's it's. Yeah,
that was one of the
parts when I was putting
this together, that knocked me
off my chair because they
started building out a, an
object model, you know, you
know, articles and shows and
whatever. And, you know, I
want a first time I
ran a query. I remember
thinking, what is this doing?
What's it returning? And in
my head, I was thinking
that's going to return some
obtuse queryable of something, something,
and know what I got
back was I innumerable dynamic.
And I just thought, good
grief. That is a bold
step right there. That unbelievable.
And for listeners out there
that don't understand dynamic, it's
spinning up an object based
on the names of the
fields in your database. So
we have a database called
a, what is it called?
It's called shows. I think,
I can't remember, but yeah.
Inside of shows. Yeah. And
inside of it, there's columns
called title and slug and
description and so on. So
to access that you access
it as if it's a
property. And I just thought
that is incredible. I mean,
there's no, you know, there's
no, I think there's that
kind of active record, active
record line A little bit,
you know, active record adds
an abstraction in for the
query itself. So you're not
writing raw SQL and it
structures the query for you,
which in some ways is
good. And a lot of
ways it's bad. For instance,
I was answering questions on
stack overflow today. Someone had
a minute and minute join
and they're trying to do
an all in one query
so they can get everything
back. Oh boy, it's not
so easy, but you have
to figure it out with
active record with SQL, you
know? Yeah. That's easy. That's
a quick Google search. How
do I join these? Do
we enter joins on all
these records and off you
go, but People look at
that inline SQL and they
say, Oh no, you know,
now we're back to the
past. We've just made classic
ASP and we're going to
have injection attacks and all
that kind of stuff. Have
you found that to be
the case? Well, I was
actually writing a post on
web matrix right now. And
you know, one of the
things that I observe in
the community is those people
tend to be the same
people who don't want their
HTML extracted, you know, or
abstracted. They just, they want
to write their own. So
I said, just think of
sequels, HTML for data, really.
You know what I mean?
If you can master your
sequel, you can master so
much with your site now,
does that mean everyone should
be riding in line sequel?
Of course not. And I
think if you're a more
seasoned developer, you're probably a
lot more comfortable getting in
there with web matrix and
doing it. And a lot
of ways I keep thinking
this is a, maybe a
better tool for a more
seasoned person. If, if a
junior person is coming in
and learning by this tool,
they would probably need someone
who's been working for years
in web development to sorta
hold their hand through them.
Oh no, no, you don't
want to do that. That's
a pitfall, you know, like,
you know, you don't want
to append in that value
that you've read off the
form coming in. That's bad,
you know, that kind of
stuff. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles.
Get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team. Guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse.
It's an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool. It makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team, even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
regarding the health and philosophy
project. See if yourself, you
get a free copy for
five users and one project
at tellerik.com/team poles. And please
do thank tolerant for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K coloring. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes. If
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us,
you know, that they have
that term, you hear around
Microsoft sometimes about falling into
the pit of success, right?
The idea that you could
goof up and still do
the right thing. Did you
find that to be the
case and working with us?
I did. It's funny. I
feel like you're reading my
blog posts. I haven't published
it yet, but I'm one
of the points that I
also made in there was
I was putting together a
link. I forgot to what,
but I needed to append
in an extension. It was
a link off to our
MP3s. And so I was
just trying to build it,
using some convention, putting the
slug together and then appending
dot MP3 to the end.
So I was just going
to like, hurry up and
do that in the code.
Well, it didn't work the
parcel. Didn't like seeing the
dot there next to the,
to the value I couldn't
do. Concatenation it, it wouldn't
work. And at first they
started cursing with, I thought,
ah, ha let's just use
a helper. And that's precisely
what I did. And then
I thought, well, I'll just
use a helper for the
whole music link altogether, tightened
up the code. Right. And,
and tightened up the UI
to have a one liner
in it. And I thought
that just pushed me to
do the right thing. Congratulations.
That's just radical. I mean,
just think that's wonderful. I
mean, I can't expound enough
on how refreshing that is
to have an IDE and
a, you know, and language
set like razor push you
to do dry or code.
I think that's great. But
aren't you The, not the
target audience for this? I
mean, we're, we're, we're here
having a podcast about this
IDE that if you ask
a Microsoft salesman, he's going
to say it's for the
breadth developer it's for the
college student. It's for the
person that wants to the
simplest thing possible. Well, this
is why we're professional developers.
I mean, is it okay
for us to want the
simplest thing possible? I think
so. I mean, I could
be mean and say that,
you know, perhaps the people
that are framing the marketing
for this completely misunderstand the
development community, but I don't
think that's actually true. I,
I see what they're trying
to do. And I think
this will appeal to, let's
just say a person coming
out of college. However, I
think there is a growing
amount of people in the.net
realm. That's another Java around
to the people that have
learned web programming through these
high end structured languages that
don't want to do it
anymore because it's complicated, right?
And a tool like this
that does everything you need.
That's not complicated. It actually
appeals to the seasoned developer.
I would say more so
because it covers the scabs
for lack of better words.
Like for instance, a lot
of people might say, well,
I've got this intense, like
adventure work style database. I
need to mask it and
abstract it through and hibernate
and map it. So I
have usable on and on
right now, you really don't
need to, you shouldn't put
a website on top of
AdventureWorks. Anyway, what you could
do is use web matrix,
make it simple, have some
sort of replication or other
other kind of scheme in
the background. There's a lot
of better ways to do
it. And I think once
you get to a certain
level in your web development
career, you start to see
that there's easier ways to
do things rather than hitting
your domain model over the
head with an irony. I
mean, do you, do you
miss? I mean, do, do
you miss testing? Like don't
you want don't you want
this to be, this is
pretty fast and loose. I
mean, to be clear, yes.
Our little site, I mean,
one could argue, right? Why
didn't you just put it
up in Tumblr? Of course
we did because, but, but
it wouldn't stay up that's
Tumblr's fault. I mean, we
could have used postures or
WordPress or whatever. Why did
we write a little CMS
rather than using one of
the many cloud based services?
Well, you know, we, we
talked about going that route
a number of times and
you know, we're thinking maybe
WordPress, maybe whatever, but I
think what you and I
both found is we wanted
to diddle around with the
HTML pretty extensively, another word
you found a really cool
format that you liked. And
we also wanted to stick
in a tweet button in
there and like a Facebook
button. And some of those
things are, are simple to
do tumbler, let us do
that. But other other places
like WordPress and so on,
won't allow you to embed
script tags for obvious reasons,
right? They don't want you
to hijack such. And so,
you know, there's, there's restrictions
out there and I think
you and I are hands
on control freaks, right? So
having our own deal, we
both have servers we have
access to. So the, this
is just too compelling. I
mean, when you agree, It
sure seemed interesting. Really simple
to me. I mean, I
realized we could have picked
a number of places, but
like I said, we have
total control. It's one click
to publish it's it's lightweight.
It was fun. That's one
of the things, I mean,
it's, it's silly again. You,
you, you, you have to
try it yourself. I think.
Well, one of the moments
for me that I thought
was insanely compelling was last
night, right? When we pushed
the site, we're trying to
tweak some CSS specifically with
a mobile theme. And I
was holding my iPhone up
to the video camera through
Skype while you're changing files
through Dropbox and web matrix.
It's just that mix of
technology that was going together
seamlessly, quickly deployment. I was
just literally that moment for
me was one of the
funnest moments I've had programming
in the last six months.
I mean, that says something
about what it is. We're
doing the fact that we
could grease the wheels that
quickly to get HTML up
so I can hit refresh
on my iPhone. Yeah. It
was pretty funny. We were
in Dropbox, I would type
a bunch of stuff in
the mobile view, hit publish.
He would see Dropbox say
reload at the same time
it's being updated in, on
your site. And then you
hit refresh on your iPhone
so that I can see
it from, yeah. It was
pretty silly Fun thing about
that. Scott is something I
was saying earlier, we're addressing
a business problem. We're not
worrying about the technology, right.
We are right on the
problem. How does our mobile
outlook right on it? Right.
And we weren't thinking about
the code underneath it, but
something else I wanted to
touch on really quickly is,
you know, we talked about
the complex application and you
know sure. Of course writing
a little CMS, like we
did. It's not even really
a CMS, but that's easy,
you know, would I write
tech pub on it? Somebody
asked me, I think James,
would you write tech pub
using web matrix? And sure,
I would, but you know,
tech, but we actually have
some pretty deep technology that,
you know, we have to
marry things up with Amazon
subscriptions and so on, you
know, for that stuff, Hey,
you know, kick up visual
studio. You, you write your
logic in your domain model.
If you like put your
decisions in there, but you
drop your, your DLL right.
In the bin folder, just
like you would any other
way. So you still have
your logic, but it's now
encapsulated where it should be.
And you know, you can
still develop it using visual
studio with web matrix just
simply pays attention to the
front end. That's the way
I like to look at
it at least. Do, Do
you let's think about the
people who are listening to
this that are like, Oh,
there go Scott and Rob
with their new shiny toys,
you know, but I'm off,
I'm off getting work done,
you know, you know. Yay.
Good. Good for you guys.
What do you think that
professional developer should know about
this thing? I mean, I,
I'm gonna, like, I got
a buddy of mine. We
do a little work on
the side occasionally and I'm
going to show him this
and on I'll say, Hey,
you know, this could be
for small sites. We want
to put together. This can
be pretty, pretty easy, pretty
lightweight, pretty fun. Are you
talking about expired foods.com? Yeah.
Maybe expired foods.com. That would
be good. That's a great
business idea. We should quit
our jobs and we should
do that right now. And,
and, and, but then he
could actually give this web
matrix IDE potentially to the
slightly technical, small business owner,
you know, all configured and
set up and it runs
on XP and that person
could kind of manage their
own little site. Sure. And
just hit, publish. Yeah. I
mean, there's no reason you
can't have, there's no reason
you can't have a complex
domain model or whatever you
want in the backend. Heck
there's no reason you can't
plumb in and hibernate or
ETF if you needed to.
And then just have everything
expressed visually through web matrix.
I think honestly, people's reactions
are going to go along
a very typical route. We
saw today on Twitter, or
I did at least with
respect to code mash, some
pretty intensely negative reactions. You
know, people are gonna look
at this as a validation
or invalidation of themselves as
a programmer. Right. Why, why,
why, why do you think?
Because like people are saying,
Oh, we're going backwards now.
You know, shouldn't we be
going forwards into the future
with shiny new things, right.
We're going sideways. We'll, we're
going wherever. W we're actually
getting closer to the technology
that we should understand. I
think if people can like,
cause I had this reaction
to, and I'm, as you
know, I'm completely saying Mia
culpa, I should have given
web matrix a little bit
more of a nod comes
out. I say, okay, well
I'll just try it. And
within five minutes I was,
I was blissfully and happily
hooked. And I think most
developers out there, if they're
willing to just give it
a try, and this is
where I get my shill
hat and put it on
my head. If they're willing
to give it a try,
it's absolutely intoxicating. And I,
I pretty much think they're
going to not want to
go back. And this is
why I get to take
my shell hat off and
say any alternative visual studio
is good. Well, you, you,
you still do work on
the side. You do work
on the side as you're
going as a consultant. When
you're not doing tech pups
stuff, you do Ruby and
you do.net for money. Are
you going to charge, you're
going to charge people for
web matrix work? Well, you
know, it's funny. I, I,
that's, all I do contract
work is, is.net stuff. So
when I'm not doing tech
pub and other things, and
that's all I do. And
my client, one of my
clients called me the other
day and asked about this
project. They're thinking of doing,
and he's actually, they're a
big enterprise. And they use
VB. He asked me to
do it in VB. And
I, I said, I don't
know, VB, well enough, I
can show you C-sharp. And
we kind of had that
debate, which I'm sure a
lot of consultants out there
are used to. I said,
well, you know, actually a
really cool alternative is web
matrix. Really the only code
you need to understand is
razor. There's some light see
sharpness to it, but you
really don't need to get
too deep into what it
is you're doing. And you
know, we haven't even touched
on the package stuff that's
available, you know, like the
quick edit. Yeah, Yeah, yeah.
But actually let's, let's let's
back up. Cause I think
you just said something very,
very important that what, what
matrix is the IDE right.
And the web pages, I
guess, is what they're calling
it, you know, dot net
web pages. But on that
web pages, it's effectively raiser.
Right? It's all, it's kind
of, it's all MVC underneath
this thing, right? It's just
a way to express that
it's basically views. It's only
views, right? It's not MVC.
It's just V yeah. But
it's the same razor syntax
that you might already know
if you've been playing with
asp.net MVC three and since
razor, this is the funny
thing about razor actually internally,
while they were arguing about
what the syntax should be.
There was all the design
decisions and people trying to
figure out what the simplest
way. And it was all
optimized to have the fewest
number of characters, you know,
to say something, I kept
getting my eyes blur and
kind of go cross side.
When I was trying to
figure out what the syntax
rules were for razor and
tell, someone said, stop thinking
about it, just type an
add sign and start writing
code. And then I realized
that there really is no
razor. You know what I
mean? It's like, it's just,
it's just the same stuff.
It's the same code as
I've been writing all the
time. Well, it's kind of
funny. Yeah. Yesterday when you
and I were coding, like
the helper syntax is to
me, I found to be
really scripty and actually jarring.
It reminded me of writing
include functions in ASP classic.
And you, you know, you,
you kick out these helpers
and when you were writing
the methods, you kept return,
you know, like return. That's
true. Yeah, dude, it's a
helper. What does that mean?
Well, it's just, it's text
right there. There's a void.
It just depends in the
response. You know? And, and
it's kind of funny cause
you do have to wind
your brain back into scripting
thinking. Hmm. It is still
C sharp. But the interesting
thing about it is it's
sort of C sharp light,
which is interesting to me
because it's full use of
dynamic. And I actually had
this discussion with John Galloway six
months ago and I said,
wouldn't it be funny that
YouTube, as a matter of
fact, I wouldn't have actually
thought about writing this, but
doing an entire asp.net MVC
project with nothing but dynamic
the model, everything would be
dynamic. Everything sent to the
page that it is. And
lo and behold, that's what
we matrix is. Right. It's
really funny. So I mean,
it's four, It is certainly
appropriate for the people that
they're kind of quote unquote
selling it to it's free,
but they're the college students,
the lightweight scripters folks that
want to get stuff done.
But you're saying for the
advanced developer who wishes, things
were more dynamic were more
loose, were more flexible. You
know, what are the, you
know, the guys that are
like looking over the fence
at Ruby wishing, you know,
or, or feeling like Whoa,
rails is so similar, Sinatra's
so compelling. Hey, I think
there's, there's a lot to
be said about this web
matrix experience. I mean, I
will say that I don't
think C-sharp is a very
compelling web development language. However,
C sharp for, with dynamic
is, is pretty neat. It's
pretty interesting. It, I was
trying to explain it to
somebody that if you like
dynamic programming, like if you'd
like Ruby and Python, you
can quite easily find yourself
coding you C sharp in
that same way. Like duct
typing. Well, Actually, you know,
one thing that was funny
was that when you handed
me the code, you were
doing two things I think
are interesting. That might be
interesting to the listener. First
thing under posts, we basically
have the, HTMA have a
folder called post and we
have the HTML for each
of our shows. So the,
if you hit, you know,
this developer's life and you
click on a show like
I'm getting fired. Our first
show, that's actually a file
on disc. That's like one
Oh one getting fired dot
CSS, HTML. And in that
file, you had basically two
lines. You would set the
layout and then you would
go and you'd get the
show out of the database.
And you put it into
something that was called page
data. And you basically put
it in there so that
other pages and other helpers
and other things could pull
that bit of context out.
You, you did a very
dot Nettie thing. You said,
page data, square bracket. And
then you went in, you
know, an indexer and you
put the data in there
payday to quote some stuff.
But then I was talking
to Damien, he said, Hey,
why are you doing that?
Sorry, I don't know. I
mean, isn't that what you
put stuff? It's like session
quote or cash quote. He
says, no. Well, the page
object is that dynamic page
dot, whatever. So I just
said really? I said, okay,
page show equals shows dot
find. And then the line
where we were a passing
in the slug, I just
said, request a URL. And
then another, another brain, what's
the word, like a shift
in my thinking, I was
looking in the help for
how to get the last
bit of a URL segment.
Right? It's an array request
dot URL dot segments. And
I'm like thinking old school,
right? I'm thinking old school.
C-sharp, I'm messing around and
like, okay, length dot, you
know, Earl dot segments at
URL dot segments dot length
minus once that, and then
again reminded by a smarter
people than I, this is
a C-sharp foreign link. And
I can just say dot
last. So those little bit
of syntactic sugar that I
always am jealous about when
I talked to rubious is
slowly, slowly making its way
into the end of the
language. So then suddenly I
didn't have to hard code
the URL. I pulled it
right out of the segments,
segments dot last. I mean,
that's just, that was fun
actually. And then once we
put that in, once we
realized page was dynamic, then
we went back and started
deleting stuff. You know, things
just got simpler. It was
a Very, yeah. And I
think you went through, I
remember, you know, you were
telling me afterwards, you were
just like, this is horrid
you're or I forgot exactly
what you were like, this
is just get it done.
Throw stuff against the wall.
You know, like Scott man,
come on, we got a
good site and it works.
And you're deleting code. That's
the way it should be.
But yet you felt uncomfortable.
I think a lot, a
lot of developers are gonna
feel that way. I felt
weird When you gave it
to me first, because it
seemed, I kept thinking I
could have done it this
way. I couldn't have done
it that way. But then
I remembered, like you said,
the business problem for us,
which was we need a
way to easily publish shows.
It can't be a complicated
thing. We need kind of
infinite flexibility in the way
that we do our page
layout. And we want a
tiny database, but we don't
want to pay for SQL
server. So we use SQL
compact. We want it to
cash and we've got, and
again, it's all on asp.net.
And that's the other thing
like, remember yesterday when you
handed it to me, it,
you just went to the
database directly. We were trying
to figure out, well, what's
it going to take to,
to do caching and stuff?
Well, there's a helper called
web cache and it was
like web cash dot get,
if it came back, no,
go to the database. I
mean, we added caching, I
think in like two minutes
and it's done, it just
worked. You know, this whole
experience reminds me of a,
an interesting debate. My wife
and I had when we
were on the big Island
over the holidays, we went
over there. My wife wanted
to go running, but she
had forgotten her, her running
shoes. And I said, well,
you know, just go barefoot.
And she laughed at me
and I said, you know,
seriously, the human body is
built to run. Probably not
long distances, but you know
what they always say. If
you look at a cat's
leg, it's got three joints
on it. Really the leg,
the thing they run on
is actually their toes and
most animals are built that
way. And he said, just
run on your toes. And
we got into this argument
in science and biology. My
wife is a, she studies
medicine and so on. So
she of course felt violated
with his story. And he
said, no, come on. So
she wouldn't do it. So
I go to the running
shoe store, cause I'm going
to buy her some nice,
expensive running shoes. And we
get there. And the guy
says, have you seen these
new Vibram fingers, five fingers?
Right? And I said, well,
yeah, those are pretty cool.
They're for hiking. He's like,
no, they're running. And, and
I said, you're kidding me.
And they have running toe
shoes. And the guy said
at the, at the Honolulu
marathon this year over a
third of the runners are,
are wearing these shoes. $50
toe shoes. And Clear are
like, literally they look like
slippers and they have toes.
So there's like a slot
for each of your toes.
It's not a shoe as
it is a, a rough
sock with a sole. Yeah.
And the guy, the guy
said to me, something that
I just loved, he said,
your body is built to
do these things. This just
protects the bottom of your
foot. Your body does the
rest. You don't need these
running shoes. And if you
think about it, tying it
back into what we're doing.
I mean, running shoes are
an abstraction. And what they
actually ended up doing is
making you run wrong because
you land on your heel,
you end up injuring your
knees and your legs. And
pretty soon your body just,
just, just implodes. Whereas, you
know, the things that we've
been talking about today, HTML,
sequel, I mean, ACDP right.
Understanding these things, embracing them.
I mean, you know, the
web is built to run,
right? These things are built
to do what they do
and perhaps removing the running
shoes. It really is a
good feeling. And I'll tell
you what, when I put
those shoes on, I bought
a pair for myself and
I ran around. I felt
like a little kid. It
was wonderful. End of story.
All right. Let me ask
you this in closing then
if you're out there and
you're using web forms now,
and you're looking at NVC
and now we've introduced yet
another thing, right? Remember my
whole car versus motorcycle analogy,
right? There are there's room
for different kinds of vehicles
out there, right? If, if
web forms is a, is
a car and MVC is
a motorcycle, maybe web matrix
is a little hybrid scooter.
Do you know? This could
confuse a lot of people
that really just want to
go from place to place.
Should web forms. People be
freaking out like, you know,
this new thing is out
there or is this just
like more tools for the
toolbox? You know, it's, it's
interesting. Have you, you have
a bike, right? A bicycle.
Yeah. Have you ever sat
on one of those high
end road bikes? You sat
on the seat. I have,
my brother has one of
those. He has, his bicycle
is worth more than his
car, right? So if you
look at the seats, they're
like a little piece of
wood. I mean, they really
it's just so uncomfortable, but
it's not made to be
sat in. You're made to
feel the road. There's no
shock absorbers. There's no, nothing.
My point here is that
the first thing to overcome,
if you're about changing off
of web forms, let's use
that specifically just to overcome
the fear of change and
to understand, to be willing,
to learn what it means.
You know, what, what it
is that web forums has
been abstracting. And then once
you kind of say, okay,
see how it matrix is,
embracing it again. Don't stop
there. Keep going to other
technologies and learn, just learn,
learn what's out there. See,
this is why I get
to stop being a shelter.
All right. Well, you're obviously
religiously excited about this and
I think that your excitement
is infectious. You've got me,
at least making, I've made
now one site with you,
I'm going to start playing
more with a web matrix.
And I guess you're going
to blog about it a
little bit more, not blog
about some of the code
that we wrote and we'll
all continue to learn. Yay
and kudos to Microsoft for
going in this direction. I've
really, really am amazed. Very
cool. Alright. Thank you so
much. My good friend, Rob,
and this has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
put in a plug for
our other podcast. Check out
this developer's life.com. See you
next week. Hey, I have
a question before we go.
Have I been on this
podcast more than Rory black?
Yeah, No. Yeah. You've been
on more than Rory at
this point. Bye bye everybody.